# Maven-Market-dashboard

## Project overview

This Power BI dashboard is for Maven Market, a business which owns a variety of grocery stores of differing sizes across multiple countries in North America, namely: United States, Canada and Mexico. The purpose of this dashboard is to provide an overview and insights from a financial and commercial point of view, based on the data provided.

## Data set

The raw data came in form of 8  CSV files which were then transformed and cleaned in Power BI. Besides these tables, there is another blank table whose role is solely to centralise all the measures created.

The cleaning process for this data set was generally straightforward, requiring mainly header promotion, data type checking and corrections as well as basic creation of additional columns, such as "average retail price" by product brand, getting area codes and years based on other columns, etc.



## Analysis starting point and insights

### Analysis starting point
The analysis has been focused on the following financial and commercial information:
 * margins (gross profit) as no other direct or indirect costs occured
 * turnover (revenue)
 * products sold
 * products returned broken down by multiple store dimensions.

The aforementioned information has been put into context visually based on store location, business type, customer membership, customer occupation, and customer income. Most relevant insights will be provided in the following rows.

### Insights: 

Note: All the numbers mentioned below are based on the period 01/31/1997 - 12/31/1998. 

#### 1. Overall turnover trend.

The lowest point was at the beginning of the period analysed, closing with only around __45.5K USD__. Afterwards, the trend remained relatively steady until year end. However, in the first month of the following year, the closing balance surged at __98K USD__, marking a year over year __increase of 115%.__ <br>
The months that had followed presented generally low fluctions until  the beginning of quarter 4, where a short drop of sales in October has incurred, bottoming out at around __92K USD__, followed a spike in sales from November through December, closing at the end of December with  __120K USD__.

#### 2. Data analysis by location and store type. Key facts and recommendations: 

* The country with the highest revenue generated: **United States**
  * __amounting 1.17M USD out of 1.76M overall in the entire period analysed__. This performance is not surprising, as US was the debutant country, with the first (and only) stores to be opened by company in 1997, which proved to be a success, as by 1998, US has been the country with not only the highest turnover, but the highest number of stores opened as well (13 out of 24 stores by 1998). The highest proportion of revenue has been generated by the state: **Washington (562K USD).**

* The second most profitable country has been: **Mexico**
  *  __494K USD__ gross revenue generated. The highest proportion of revenue has been generated by the states: __Zacatecas (165K USD or 35%)__ and __DF (106K USD or 22%)__. <br>

* And lastly, the least profitable market place has been: **Canada**
  * only __107K USD in sales generated in 1997,__ mostly from Vancouver (__85K USD or 80%__). <br> 

* The store types which recorded the highest amount of sales were:
  * Supermarkets 44.75% of total sales
  * Deluxe supermarkets 38% of total sales
  * Gourmet supermarkets 9% of total sales



#### Recommendations: <br>
 
* Although the cost is relatively the same in every country, state and city, some stores have extremely low turnover compared to the ones in the leading cities. Thus, I advise to review if the short and long term market potential and the opportunity cost of doing business in those areas is worth the effort or if it would be better to shut the operation down in those areas and invest in stores that are already generating high income or have high potential. The least profitable cities are: 
  * USA: Yakima, Bellingham, Walla Walla, San Francisco, 
  * Mexico: Mexico City, Guadalajara
  * Canada: Victoria

* Although since October 1997 it has been an high sales increase in for low fat products overall, I recommend to distribute these type of products first in stores of type "Supermarkets" and "Deluxe Supermarkets" where the sales for these type of products has been around half of those high in fat products ,comparing to the other store types, where the sales for this sort of products has been much lower.

* Regardless of the store type, recyclable products sales had surpassed the non-recyclable ones in sales, the difference being significant in **store types with the highest turnover rate mentioned above**. Therefore, I suggest to negociate prices with vendors who are providing non-recyclable product types whilst trying to substitute non-recyclable products with recyclable ones by gradually testing and entering the market.  

* High-fat products are the popular choice in all types of stores. Further analysis should be done to determine which products are most sought after in order to prevent stockpiling products, especially perishable goods.

## Requirements

To use this PowerBI dashboard, you will need:

- Microsoft PowerBI Desktop installed on your computer.
- Access to data source from PowerBI service containing relevant data.
- Basic understanding of PowerBI to navigate and interact with the dashboard. 

## Future posible enhancements

The dashboard is designed to evolve and accommodate new data over time. Some potential future enhancements could include:

- **Real-Time Data Integration:** Implementing real-time data integration by creating a database which would be connected to multiple ERPs in order to have a contiunous and stable data source. Then, connect each table from the database in order to provide executives with up-to-date insights into company performance.
- **Advanced Analytics:** Adding additional data and using statistical techniques to forecast sales trends or identify opportunities for cost, revenue and HR optimization.

## Feedback and Support

Feedback on the dashboard is welcome and encouraged. If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvement, feel free to contact me.